(gentle twinkling music)
All right, we're going to make all of the pages
for the slicemasters
because we don't want to put 10 on a page.
We want to put, I don't know, two or four,
or however many that we want to go on each page.
Now, somewhere we need to store the number of people
that will go on each page.
And then based on that number,
we're gonna be able to calculate things
like how many pages there are.
So, and this is a little bit different
than pagination you might have done in the past,
because usually you just do that on demand
where you have like p=3,
here we go, page=2.
You usually do something like that
and that will just do it on demand.
But because it's Gatsby is all pre-generated at build time,
we need to know at build time how many pages there are,
and we're gonna go into our Gatsby node.
And we're going to do things like make a page for,
let's say we've got 10 people and there's two per page.
That means we have to make five pages for the slicemasters,
we need /slicemasters.
We need /slicemasters/2, three,
four and five.
So those all need to be generated ahead of time.
So we're gonna go into our .env file,
and we're gonna set some environmental variables here
that show how many are on each page.
And this value probably could also be put on
in like a JavaScript file, like settingsjs,
or something like that.
But I'm gonna show you how to put
environmental variables in here and surface them to Gatsby.
So if you want an environmental variable
to show up in Gatsby,
you have to prefix it with GATSBY_PAGE_SIZE=4.
And then let's go into our slicemasters,
and I'm gonna show you just how to surface that.
So if I have a paragraph right above this here,
we can do curly brackets and say
{process.env.GATSBY_PAGE
and what did we call it?
PAGE_SIZE.
That save and go to our slicemasters page.
And that's not there.
I think I need to kill it and start it up again.
All right. It regenerate it, now refresh the page.
There we go. We got four.
So, you see this environmental variable is showing up
and you may also say okay, well,
I can also show my sanity token. Let's try that.
You see, sanity token doesn't show up.
And that's because this is not meant to be surfaced
to the front end.
So if you want to explicitly allow something to be surfaced
via the front end in Gatsby,
you have to prefix it with GATSBY_PAGE_SIZE.
Also, while we're here, put this...
You might not need this by the time you're watching this,
but make a new variable called GATSBY_HOT_LOADER.
At the time of recording,
are trying this new one called fast-refresh.
And it's a bit of a better hot reloader
if you're having issues with it.
So give that a save, kill it, restart it again.
If you see like it errors about like refreshing or whatever,
just remove this one line.
Or if you're live reloading is not working,
just remove this line.
But at the time of recording,
I've been running this when I was working on this project,
and it's much better, much faster
and the CSS refreshes are even better.
So while that rebundles, let's go.
There we go. Seems like it's up and running.
So next what we need to do is to go into our Gatsby node
and we're going to make a new function that's going to
turn the slicemasters into pages.
So let's make a new function below,
fetchBeersAndTurnInto pages.
Let's make another one.
That's async function.
turnSlicemastersIntoPages.
And there's a couple things that need to happen inside
if you're actually before we even do anything,
let's just destructure graphql and actions
just like we did before.
And then let's take that turn turnSlicemastersIntoPages
and just pop it on the end along with the other
turnPizzasIntoPages and turnToppingsIntoPages.
Okay, so in here,
there's a couple things that need to happen.
So one we need to query all slicemasters.
Two, we need to turn each slicemaster into their own page.
So like when you click on one of these slicemasters here,
it's gonna go to /slashslicemaster/ their slug.
We got to do that.
I'm not gonna do that right now. We'll come back to that.
I want to say TODO.
Actually, I got that cool little highlighter TODO.
Ooh, look at that. Okay,
Now three,
we want to figure out how many pages there are
based on how many slicemasters
there are,
and how many per page.
So like, again, example,
if you have two per page
and you have 10 slicemasters,
you know you have to create five pages.
And then four,
loop over or loop from one to n,
and whereas n is the number of pages that you have,
and then the fifth step I guess we have,
is we're going to go back into our slicemasters,
and modify this query right here
to accept some arguments
that allow us to only pull four at a time
as well as skip over.
Like if you're on page two,
you want items five through five, six, seven and eight.
(laughs) Numbers are hard.
Okay. So let's do it.
So first, query all the slicemasters.
We will
const,  = await graph qL, ()
Remember the parentheses in this case,
and we will query allSanityPerson
and we want the totalCount.
And then for each person, we want
the name, the ID, the slug.
The slug is also has like current property
that's nested in it.
So I believe that is...
Don't need that.
I think in graphqL, you can put commas here,
but it's not necessary.
All right, so that's that.
Two, turn each slicemaster into their own page.
We'll do that, we've done that a bunch,
but we'll come to that in a future video.
Three, figure out how many pages there are
based on how many slicemasters there are.
Okay, so we need a couple variables here.
So const pageSize is equal to,
now we need to get that environmental variable right here.
So we say,
process.env.GATSBY_PAGE_SIZE.
Now, one weird thing about that
is even though this is a number, it comes in as a string,
which is odd, asked me how I know.
I wasted a good chunk of my day on that one,
Not a day, but at least a couple minutes on it
and I was frustrated.
So we need to wrap that in a parseInt,
and that will turn it from a string into a number.
And then we need another variable
that has the amount of pages that we need.
So say pageCount is equal to, so we'll take,
how many people there are
divided by how many people per page
and then take the upper bound of that.
And that will give us how many pages that we need.
So like if you have nine people and you have two per page,
you have four and a half pages.
But even if you have one person on my page,
you still need that last page.
So we'll take the upper bound of that the ceiling
and that will be five.
So say Math.ceil,
Oh, wrong kind of seil, ceil.
And we'll take the
data.allsanity,
let's rename that all sanity person.
Let's rename that to people.
Let's do slicemasters, slicemasters.
So data.slicemasters.totalCount, capital C,
divided by pageSize.
And then let's just do a little console log here.
So console log,
there are data.slicemasters.totalCount
total people.
And we have page count, pages
with pageSize per page.
So this should give us make sure that we now understand
that we have the three pieces of data we need
to do pagination.
So go ahead and reboot that sucker.
This is not working for me.
It's supposed to restart the whole build,
but it doesn't look like it's doing that.
So I'm gonna kill it, rerun it myself.
There we go. There it is.
There are 10 people total and we have three pages
with four per page.
So does that make sense?
We have 10 people and we have four people per page
that was two and a half pages, was four per page. Good.
I mean, we'll go and change that value later
to make sure that our pagination works,
regardless of how many people we have.
Okay, so that's good.
Let's see, where are we right now?
So figure out how many pages there are
and how many slicemasters for page.
Good.
Then loop from one to n and create pages for each of them.
Okay.
So we will...
how do you loop from one to four or one to three?
Well, we can say Array.from,
and we create an object where the length:
is equal to the pageCount.
And what that will do is,
let me show you real quick here.
Get rid of this.
I'll say array.from,
we have an object where you give it a length of five
that gives you
an array of this many slots.
And then what we can do is we can map over that
or we can for each over that, and we can get the slot,
which we don't care about,
because that's just undefined and we get the index.
And then for each one, we can return the index.
And we got a console log.
Console, get out of here. log(i).
So they you go.
See what we just did there is we took five
and we looped over it.
And that's a good way to count from one to whatever.
Obviously, we're off by one because indexes are off,
so we just need to add one to each.
So we're go from one to five, not zero to four.
So Array.from pageCount.forEach.
And then we don't care about the actual item in the array,
because that's just undefined.
So a lot of times people will just put an underscore there
just to put a garbage variable in there.
We're not going to use it,
but we just need to get to the second argument
which is the eye the index of that so for each
and then let's just console.log
Creating page i,
and that will be zero to four,
then we will take our actions that get passed in right here.
Remember we've done this two times already,
this is our third time doing it,
actions.createPage.
A object where the path is going to be
/slicemasters/i + 1.
The component we need.
We haven't done this one yet.
So remember, we would have to make a template for it.
Luckily, we already have a template for it
and that is our slicemaster's page.
So we can just use our path.resolve
right inside of here.
Previously, I have shown you how to grab the template
in a variable right here,
you can also just resolve it directly in here.
So we'll say resolve("src/pages/slicemasters.js")
and then context.
So a couple pieces of data that need to be passed
to the template.
So this data is passed to the template when we create it.
So what do we need here?
We need the skip.
So this will tell us how many people should we skip
because if we're querying four slicemasters,
but we're on page two,
we need to tell it, give me four but skip the first four.
So we will take the index page and
multiply that by the page size.
So on the first page, we will skip four times zero,
and that's we'll skip zero.
On the second page, we will skip one times four,
and that's four.
On the third page, we will skip two times four,
you get the point.
So that's how many we are skipping,
the current page that we're on.
So current page is i + 1,
very similar to how we did it right up here.
And then we also want to pass the page size value to it.
We can always access it via this
process.envGATSBY_page_size,
but I'm gonna pass it in via context,
just so that we have it all in one neat place.
Okay, so with that done,
I should be able to reboot this sucker.
And we should now have page one, page two
and page three showing up.
There we go. We've got our console log
creating page zero, one and two.
Now if we refresh this page,
this still works and shows us all the people
but we should be able to go to slicemasters/2
and that is now a page,
it still has all the same people,
because we haven't modified our actual query yet.
And then we can go ahead in page three,
that is page and I don't think we have a page. No.
And if you go to a page that doesn't exist,
you should be able to see in your list of pages here.
There we go /slicemasters, one, two, and three,
are now showing up.
So if we then change that slicemasters env variable
to two people per page, so go back to your env,
kill it and restart.
If we did the math right,
we should now see what six pages instead of three.
Five pages, how does math even work?
So refresh?
See now this page four is actually a page
and you should be able to see all of them.
Okay,
I think that's enough for this video.
In the next video,
what we're gonna do is we're gonna figure out
how to modify this query,
so that this query takes the incoming context
that we pass right here
and we actually get different people on each page.